1. Describe your process. At a high level, how did you go about creating this project?
I used ChatGPT to first plan and expand on my initial idea: create a program that parses dense research papers, and creates helpful visualizations specific/optimized for the field of neuroscience. I also used ChatGPT to create the file structure, and generate initial code for an app that at least runs. After creating the initial pipeline, I used Github Copilot to debug, fix UI, optimize the ML model and fix API issues.
2. What AI tools and strategies did you use? What models did you choose, and were you using them in a browser chat, in something like Cursor, in the command line, etc? Did you use an agentic process like in HW8, or something else?
I used ChatGPT and Github Copilot. I used ChatGPT in a browser chat, then switched to Github Copilot and used mostly agent mode to modify the code. I spent a long time “planning” with ChatGPT before I asked it to write any code.
3. Why did you make the choices above?
I used ChatGPT to plan first because it is better at colloquial language understanding, and so it made it easier to bounce ideas, plan and ask questions about the new things I wanted to implement (eg. ML module/algorithm). Since I had a vague idea of what I wanted to build, this process was helpful in designing the framework, and incrementally understanding what files were necessary and how it would fit in the program (since I wasn’t sure how to separate the files. I used Copilot in later stages because it is just more efficient in checking for bugs, validating and changing large chunks of code.
4. What changed from your pre-113 approach? Compare your approach to how you might have approached the project before 15-113. What has changed, if anything? Do you feel more or less well-equipped to create projects like this within a reasonable time frame?
I think I have a better idea of how I want to approach new models in the future: models are better suited to be used at different stages of development, and it's important to identify the strengths and weaknesses of each model. The biggest thing I learned is to use multiple models for different things in a project. I think I also learned valuable prompt engineering strategies, and know how to “talk” to a variety of models, and feel more comfortable creating projects.
5. What might you do with this project with more time?
I would like to be able to train a model with a large body of literature so the output diagrams are more reliable. Also, since a lot of research papers include figures and pictures, I would to use computer vision in some way to create more meaningful visualizations.
